## An easy way to look at the default configurations of the super POM is by running the following command: mvn help:effective-pom.

> mvn help:effective-pom


	<properties>
		<project.build.sourceEncoding>UTF-8</project.build.sourceEncoding>
		<maven.compiler.source>1.8</maven.compiler.source>
		<maven.compiler.target>1.8</maven.compiler.target>
	</properties>

##The order of execution depends on the order in which the goal(s) and the build
phase(s) are invoked. For example, consider the command below. The clean and package arguments are build phases while thedependency:copy- dependencies is a goal.

> mvn clean dependency:copy-dependencies package

## This plugin provides the ability to run Ant tasks from within Maven
## runs Ant tasks for Maven
# maven-antrun-plugin extensively in our examples to print data on console. Refer Build Profiles chapter.

> maven-antrun-plugin:run

# BUILDPROFILES


### Profile Activation

### Profile Activation Examples
### Profile Activation via Environment Variables page 38

> /usr/local/Cellar/maven/3.5.3/libexec/conf

## That means they'll remove the target folder
> mvn clean package


# Create new fresh maven project using command page 48

> mvn archetype:generate -DgroupId=com.companyname.bank -DartifactId=consumerBanking -DarchetypeArtifactId=maven-archetype-quickstart -DinteractiveMode=false

# Apache Maven 3 Cookbook

> mvn -version

create maven project

> mvn archetype:generate

#### Then you will see a rather large list of archetypes. Here we have considered that it is archetype number 1198 named maven-archetype-quickstart.

	Enter version:
	Enter groupId:
	Enter artifactId:
	Enter 1.0-SNAPSHOT:
	Enter package:
	done done

# Pom has 4 major section(page 20)

1. The basic
2. Build Settings
3. Project metadata
4. Environment

# Default lifecycle

1. Validate: validates that all project information is available and is correct 
2. Compile: compiles the source code
3. Test: runs unit tests within a suitable framework
4. Package: packages the compiled code in its distribution format
5. Integration-test: processes the package in the integration-test environment 
6. Verify: runs checks to verify that the package is valid
7. Install: installs the package in the local repository
8. Deploy: installs the  nal package in a remote repository


# Clean lifecycle


1. Pre-clean: executes processes required before project cleaning
2. Clean: removes all files generated by previous builds
4. Post-clean: executes processes required to finalize project cleaning


# Site lifecycle

1. Pre-site: executes processes required before generation of the site 
2. Site: generates the project’s site documentation
3. Post-site: executes processes required to finalize the site generation and prepares the site for deployment
4. Site-deploy: deploys the site documentation to the specified web server


#    Explicit command-line trigger (page 22)


# chapter 2 (Software engineering)

# Goal

1. Build automation
2. Project modularization
3. Dependency management
5. Source code quality checks
6. Test driven development
7. Acceptance testing automation 
8. Deployment automation


# maven-dependency-plugin
# Maven dependencies have six possible scopes

1. Compile: This is the default scope. Compile dependencies are available in the classpaths.
2. Provided: This scope assumes that the JDK or the environment provides dependencies at runtime.
3. Runtime: Dependencies that are required at runtime and are specified in the runtime classpaths.
4. Test: Dependencies required for test compilation and execution.
5. System: Dependency is always available, but the JAR is provided nonetheless.
6. Import: Imports dependencies specified in POM included via the <dependencyManagement/> element.



	$ mvn dependency:analyze
	Analyzes dependencies (used, unused, declared, undeclared)
	$ mvn dependency:analyze-duplicate
	Determines duplicate dependencies
	$ mvn dependency:resolve
	Resolves all dependencies
	$ mvn dependency:resolve-plugin
	Resolves all plugins
	$ mvn dependency:tree
	Displays dependency trees

# Apache Maven PMD plugin
##### The Apache Maven PMD plugin automatically runs the PMD code analysis tool on the source code and generates a site report with results.


#### This plugin introduces four goals:
1. pmd:pmd creates a PMD site report based on the rulesets and configuration set in the plugin
2. pmd:cpd generates a report for PMD's Copy/Paste Detector (CPD) tool
3. pmd:check verifies that the PMD report is empty and fails the build if it is not
4. pmd:cpd-check verifies that the CPD report is empty and fails the build if it is not


```xml

	<reporting>
		<plugins>
			<plugin>
				<groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
				<artifactId>maven-pmd-plugin</artifactId>
				<version>2.5</version>



				<configuration>
					<rulesets>
						<ruleset>/rulesets/basic.xml</ruleset>
						<ruleset>/rulesets/controversial.xml</ruleset>
						<ruleset>http://localhost/design.xml</ruleset>
					</rulesets>
					<sourceEncoding>utf-8</sourceEncoding>
					<minimumTokens>100</minimumTokens>
					<targetJdk>1.7</targetJdk>
				</configuration>
			</plugin>



			<plugin>
				<groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
				<artifactId>maven-jxr-plugin</artifactId>
				<version>2.3</version>
			</plugin>
		</plugins>
	</reporting>
```


# We'll use the popular JUnit framework to create a unit test. 

#### JUnit framework 
$ mvn test

$ mvn install



# Selenium is a popular automation testing framework
#### 

> mvn archetype:generate -DgroupId=com.abdullah.maven -DartifactId=MySampleWebAppS -DarchetypeArtifactId=maven-archetype-webapp

## Documenting with a Maven site

> mvn site:run

